---
category: Events
layout: event
title: Code Switch 2017
event_date: 2016-09-23 07:30:00
rsvp_url: "https://www.eventbrite.com/e/codeswitch-2017-registration-37394572172"
social_image: "http://www.opentwincities.org/images/posts/2016/04/CodeSwitch_logo.png"
venue_name: Union Depot 
venue_location: "240 East Kellogg Boulevard, Saint Paul, MN 55101"
published: true 
related_tag: codeswitch2017
tags:
 - codeswitch 
 - codeswitch2015
 - hackformn 
 - hackforchange 
---

Have you ever had an idea for how to strengthen your community? Do you have a
desire to use your skills or knowledge to solve critical social problems?

## JOIN US AT CODE SWITCH

A free, two-day civic hackathon where community members connect to co-create
solutions that disrupt inequity.

Yes. Code Switch is for everyone. Code Switch is for you. We are looking for
techies AND non-techies - from developers to entrepreneurs, artists, educators,
business professionals, concerned citizens, everyday people and more! Great
solutions are born when innovators from the community lead the process—from
ideation to launch.

## CONNECT

You will work on a team that has an idea to make your community more livable or
equitable. Your team has the chance to turn the idea into an actual product
that helps solve a pressing problem in your community. There is good food,
folks and fun!

## DISRUPT INEQUITY!

Your challenge, should you choose to accept it, is to Disrupt Inequity -
leverage your knowledge and skills to reduce the gaps that exist in Minnesota.
Gain a broader and deeper understanding of the issues we face and use
inclusion, objective data and technology to co-create solutions that will lead
to a higher quality of life for ALL Minnesotans.

## CO-CREATE CHANGE

Code Switch is opportunity for you to join others to discuss disparities across
important quality of life topics and come up with solutions. There are multiple
ways to address the challenge. Here are the focus areas:

- Economic Opportunity. Regions are stronger when residents have opportunities to thrive and have access to Jobs, Entrepreneurship, Safe and Affordable Housing, Equitable Education, Transportation. How do we use inclusion, data and technology to increase opportunity for all?
- Health & Wellness. When our communities are healthy, people thrive. How do we use inclusion, data and technology to improve health outcomes and promote wellness?
- Public Safety. We believe that safe and just communities have justice systems that are responsive, fair and that work for all. How do we use inclusion, data and technology to increase to ensure justice for the nation’s most vulnerable populations, especially those most impacted by crime, violence, and justice system involvement?
- Civic Engagement. We all gain when everyone participates in society – by running for office, voting, donating to charities, volunteering, and helping our neighbors. How do we use inclusion, data and technology to increase civic engagement?
- Immigration & Refugee Resettlement. Immigrants and their children are vital contributors to our state’s economic, cultural, and civic life. How do we use inclusion, data and technology to ensure immigrants remain apart of our communities?

## Great! How Do I Sign Up?

[Click Right Here](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/codeswitch-2017-registration-37394572172)

